= curses-pad

home :: https://github.com/drbrain/curses-pad
rdoc :: http://docs.seattlerb.org/curses-pad
bugs :: https://github.com/drbrain/curses-pad/issues

== Description

curses-pad adds newpad() support as Curses::Pad to the ruby curses extension.
Curses::Pad makes it easy to create scrollable windows using curses.

== Synopsis

A Curses::Pad may be used like a Curses::Window.

To load Curses::Pad:

  require 'curses'
  require 'curses/pad'

To create a pad that's twice the height of the screen

  height = Curses.lines * 2
  width  = Curses.cols

  pad = Curses::Pad.new height, width

To change what is shown on the screen use #noutrefresh or #refresh:

  pad.noutrefresh 2, 0,                     # pad min row, column
                  0, 0,                     # screen min row, column
                  Curses.lines, Curses.cols # screen max row, column

To change the size of the pad use #resize (from superclass Curses::Window):

  pad.resize height * 4, width

== Requirements

* ruby 1.9
* curses extension (require 'curses' must work)

== Install

  sudo gem install curses-pad

== Developers

After checking out the source, run:

  $ rake newb

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests/specs,
and generate the RDoc.

== License

(The Ruby License)

Copyright (c) Eric Hodel, MAEDA Shugo, others

Contains code from ext/curses/curses.c from ruby-trunk (see ext/curses/pad.c).

You can redistribute it and/or modify it under either the terms of the
2-clause BSDL (see the file BSDL), or the conditions below:

1. You may make and give away verbatim copies of the source form of the
   software without restriction, provided that you duplicate all of the
   original copyright notices and associated disclaimers.

2. You may modify your copy of the software in any way, provided that
   you do at least ONE of the following:

   a. place your modifications in the Public Domain or otherwise
      make them Freely Available, such as by posting said
      modifications to Usenet or an equivalent medium, or by allowing
      the author to include your modifications in the software.

   b. use the modified software only within your corporation or
      organization.

   c. give non-standard binaries non-standard names, with
      instructions on where to get the original software distribution.

   d. make other distribution arrangements with the author.

3. You may distribute the software in object code or binary form,
   provided that you do at least ONE of the following:

   a. distribute the binaries and library files of the software,
      together with instructions (in the manual page or equivalent)
      on where to get the original distribution.

   b. accompany the distribution with the machine-readable source of
      the software.

   c. give non-standard binaries non-standard names, with
      instructions on where to get the original software distribution.

   d. make other distribution arrangements with the author.

4. You may modify and include the part of the software into any other
   software (possibly commercial).  But some files in the distribution
   are not written by the author, so that they are not under these terms.

   For the list of those files and their copying conditions, see the
   file LEGAL.

5. The scripts and library files supplied as input to or produced as
   output from the software do not automatically fall under the
   copyright of the software, but belong to whomever generated them,
   and may be sold commercially, and may be aggregated with this
   software.

6. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
   IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
   PURPOSE.

